Eventing Docs updates for 6.6 (#1474)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/eventing/pages/eventing-examples-cancel-overwrite-timer.adoc

= Cancel or Overwrite a Timer
:page-edition: Enterprise Edition

*Goal*: Demonstrate the functionality for canceling or overwriting an Eventing Timer.

> *Implementation*: Implementation: Create JavaScript function that contains an *OnUpdate* handler and a Timer callback function. The handler listens for mutations or data-changes within a specified, source bucket. When any document within the bucket is created or modified, the handler executes a user-defined routine. In this example, we rely on a control document which if the created or altered controls whether a Timer will be created, canceled or overwritten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Implementation*: Create a JavaScript function that contains an *OnUpdate* handler and a Timer callback function. The handler listens for mutations or data-changes within a specified source bucket. When any document within the bucket is created or modified, the handler executes a user-defined routine. In this example, we rely on a control document which if mutated controls whether a Timer will be created, canceled, or overwritten.
```

Firstly, get rid of repeated "Implementation:" — might be an idea to check other examples for this error as I've seen it elsewhere. Secondly, not sure what "if the created or altered" means, but it seems to make more sense if you delete this phrase.

Reviewer 2: change your work to
"which controls whether" 
to 
"which if mutated controls whether"
 it has to change to tigger things.

** *Test 1*: The control document is created or mutated in such a way a Timer is created and fires approximately 60 seconds in the future at which point a document is written to another bucket. The original control document, in the source bucket, is not changed.

> ** *Test 2*: The control document mutated in such a way that any existing Timer with the reference of the control documents id (meta.id) is canceled, this has no effect if the Timer created has already fired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** *Test 2*: The control document is mutated in such a way that any existing Timer with the reference of the control document's id (meta.id) is canceled. This has no effect if the Timer created has already fired.
```

> ** *Test 3*: The control document mutated in such a way that any existing Timer with the reference of the control documents id (meta.id) is overwritten, this is equivalent to canceling a timer is it already exists and then creating a new Timer that will fire approximately 60 seconds in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** *Test 3*: The control document mutated in such a way that any existing Timer with the reference of the control document's id (meta.id) is overwritten. This is equivalent to canceling a timer as it already exists, and then creating a new Timer that will fire approximately 60 seconds in the future.
```

*Preparations (Common)*

> For this example, three buckets 'source', 'target', and 'metadata', are required (note the metadata bucket for Eventing can be shared with other Eventing functions). Make all three buckets with minimum size of 100MB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, three buckets 'source', 'target', and 'metadata', are required. (Note the metadata bucket for Eventing can be shared with other Eventing functions.) Make all three buckets with minimum size of 100MB.
```

For steps to create buckets, see xref:manage:manage-buckets/create-bucket.adoc[Create a Bucket].

> NOTE: The 'metadata' bucket is for the sole use of the Eventing system, do not add, modify, or delete documents from this bucket. In addition do not drop or flush or delete the bucket while you have any deployed Eventing functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The 'metadata' bucket is for the sole use of the Eventing system. Do not add, modify, or delete documents from this bucket. In addition do not drop or flush or delete the bucket while you have any deployed Eventing functions.
```

*Setup*:

. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page.

> ** You should see the following once you have created your buckets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** You should see the following once you have created your buckets:
```

+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_01_buckets.png[,800]

> . Click click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.
```

Repeated click.

** You should see no user records.
+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_01_documents.png[,800]
+

> ** Click *Add Document* in the upper right banner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Add Document* in the upper right banner.
```

> ** In the *Add Document* dialog, specify the name *type_of_interest::1* as the *New Document ID*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In the *Add Document* dialog, specify the name *type_of_interest::1* as the *New Document ID*.
```

+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_01_add_document.png[,350]
+
** Click *Save*.

> ** In the *Edit Document* dialog, the following text is displayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Click *Save*.
In the *Edit Document* dialog, the following text is displayed:
```

+
----
{
"click": "to edit",
"with JSON": "there are no reserved field names"
}
----

> ** Replace the above text with the following JSON document via a cut-n-paste

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Replace the above text with the following JSON document via copy and paste.
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": false,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 1
}
----
+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_01_docdata.png[,484]
+
** Click *Save*.

. From the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page, click *ADD FUNCTION*, to add a new Function.
The *ADD FUNCTION* dialog appears.
. In the *ADD FUNCTION* dialog, for individual Function elements provide the below information:
 ** For the *Source Bucket* drop-down, select *source*.
 ** For the *Metadata Bucket* drop-down, select *metadata*.
 ** Enter *cancel_overwrite_timer* as the name of the Function you are creating in the *Function Name* text-box.
 ** [Optional Step] Enter text *Explore creating, canceling, and overwriting timers*, in the *Description* text-box.
  ** For the *Settings* option, use the default values.

>  ** For the *Bindings* option, add just one bindings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ** For the *Bindings* option, add just one binding.
```

>  *** For the binding, select the "bucket alias", specify *tgt_bkt* as the "alias name" of the bucket, and select *target* as the associated bucket, and select "read and write".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 *** For the binding, select the "bucket alias", specify *tgt_bkt* as the "alias name" of the bucket, select *target* as the associated bucket, and select "read and write".
```

>  ** After configuring your settings your screen should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ** After configuring your settings the *ADD FUNCTION* dialog should look like this:
```

+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_01_settings.png[,484]
. After providing all the required information in the *ADD FUNCTION* dialog, click *Next: Add Code*.
The *cancel_overwrite_timer* dialog appears.

> ** The *cancel_overwrite_timer* dialog initially contains a placeholder code block.

Reviewer: Not sure if I'd call it a dialog, more of an editor window

Reviewer 2: editor window is better feel free to change it

         log('From OnUpdate: overwriting timer with same reference', meta.id);
       } else {
         log('From OnUpdate: creating timer', meta.id);  
       }
       // Create a timestamp 60 seconds from now
       var oneMinuteFromNow = new Date(); // Get current time & add 60 sec. to it.
       oneMinuteFromNow.setSeconds(oneMinuteFromNow.getSeconds() + 60);
   
       // Create a document to use as out for our context
       var context = {docId : meta.id, random_text : "arbitrary text", "tmr_time_to_fire": oneMinuteFromNow};
       createTimer(DocTimerCallback, oneMinuteFromNow, meta.id, context);
    }
    if (doc.cancel_timer === true && doc.overwrite_timer === false) {
       // Cancel an existing timer (if it is active) by reference meta.id
       if (cancelTimer(DocTimerCallback, meta.id)) {
           log('From OnUpdate: cancel request, timer was canceled',meta.id);
       } else {
           log('From OnUpdate: cancel request, no such timer may have fired',meta.id);
       }
    }
    if (doc.cancel_timer === true && doc.overwrite_timer === true) {
        log('From OnUpdate: both cancel and overwrite, will ignore',meta.id);
    }

> }

Reviewer: If you save this file as an example file in the `eventing/examples` directory, and then include it in this code block using an AsciiDoc `include::` directive, the code block will have a copy button which users can click in order to copy the text directly. No action required for now, but it might be a nice feature to consider when copying and pasting text.

Reviewer 2: Nice to know, I have saved your comment for future updates

. The *OnUpdate* routine specifies that when a change occurs to data within the bucket, actions will be processed according to the field within the document.  First we ignore all documents that do not have a doc.type of "type_of_interest" this is the control document.  Next we use the field as "needed_condition", "cancel_timer", and "overwrite_timer" to determine which action we take.  

* If "needed_condition" is true and both "cancel_timer", and "overwrite_timer" are false we will create a Timer that will fire approximately 60 seconds in the future.
* If "needed_condition" is true and "cancel_timer" is true we will cancel the existing Timer.
* If "needed_condition" is true and "overwrite_timer" is true we will overwrite the existing Timer with a new one (assuming that our Timer is still active) which will fire approximately 60 seconds in the future.
* If both "cancel_timer" and "overwrite_timer" are true it is considered an error and no action is taken.
* In the event a Timer created by this Function fires the callback *DocTimerCallback* executes and will write a new document with the same KEY (as the "source" bucket) into the "destination" bucket.

> . From the *Eventing* screen, click *Deploy*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Eventing* screen, click the *cancel_overwrite_timer* function to select it, then click *Deploy*.
```

**Deploy** button not available unless the function is selected, which by default it isn't

> ** In the *Confirm Deploy Function* dialog, select *Everything from the Feed boundary* option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In the *Confirm Deploy Function* dialog, select *Everything* from the *Feed boundary* option.
```

** Click *Deploy Function*.

. The Eventing function is deployed and starts running within a few seconds. From this point, the defined Function is executed on all existing documents and will also more importantly it will also run on subsequent mutations.

> == *Test 1: Create a Timer and allow the Timer to Fire:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Test 1: Create a Timer and allow the Timer to Fire
```

Don't need bold formatting for the heading, also having two colons looks odd.

. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.

> ** Edit the control document type_of_interest::1 it should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Edit the control document type_of_interest::1 -- it should look like this:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": false,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 1
}
----
+

> Now change "needed_condition" to true to create a mutation, then Click *Save*.  This will create a mutation and then the Function will generate a Timer.  The control document is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change "needed_condition" to true to create a mutation, then click *Save*.  This will create a mutation and then the Function will generate a Timer.  The control document is now:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 1
}
----

> . Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and click on the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* then Click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and if necessary select the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*, then click the "Log" link for Deployed Function to view the activity.  
```

** Here we see from the Application log that we created a timer.
+
----
2020-08-03T12:46:02.941-07:00 [INFO] "From OnUpdate: creating timer" "type_of_interest::1"
----
+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_04_log_active1.png[,500,align=left]

> . Wait about 80 seconds and click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Close the Function Log dialog, then wait about 80 seconds and click the "Log" link for the Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity again.  
```

** Here we see the timer fired and executed the callback *DocTimerCallback* near our scheduled time.
+
----
2020-08-03T12:47:03.925-07:00 [INFO] "From DocTimerCallback: timer fired" {"docId":"type_of_interest::1","random_text":"arbitrary text","tmr_time_to_fire":"2020-08-03T19:47:02.941Z"}
----
+
image::cancel_overwrite_timer_04_log_fired1.png[,800,align=left]

> . Now check the results of the callback, access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *target* bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Now, to check the results of the callback, access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *target* bucket.
```

** Edit the new document type_of_interest::1 and you will see the data written by the Timer's callback:
+
----
{
  "docId": "type_of_interest::1",
  "random_text": "arbitrary text",
  "tmr_time_to_fire": "2020-08-03T19:47:02.941Z"
}
----
** Click *Cancel* to close the editor.

> . Now Click the trash can icon and delete out document and Click *Continue* to confirm the deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the trash can icon to delete the document, then click *Continue* to confirm the deletion.
```

> == *Test 2: Create a Timer then Cancel the Timer:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Test 2: Create a Timer then Cancel the Timer
```

As before

. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.

> ** Edit the control document type_of_interest::1 it should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Edit the control document *type_of_interest::1* -- it should look like this:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 1
}
----
+

> Now change "a_number" to 2 to create a mutation, then Click *Save*.  The control document is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change "a_number" to 2 to create a mutation, then click *Save*.  The control document is now:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 2
}
----

> . Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and click on the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* then Click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  Here we see from the Application log that we once again created a timer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and if necessary select the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*, then click the "Log" link for Deployed Function to view the activity.  Here we see from the Application log that we once again created a timer.
```

+
----
2020-08-03T12:50:40.441-07:00 [INFO] "From OnUpdate: creating timer" "type_of_interest::1"
----

. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.

> ** Edit the control document type_of_interest::1 it should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Edit the control document *type_of_interest::1* -- it should look like this:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 2
}
----
+

> Now change "cancel_timer" to true to create a mutation, then Click *Save*.  The control document is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change "cancel_timer" to true to create a mutation, then click *Save*.  The control document is now:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": true,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 2
}
----

> . Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and click on the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* then Click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and if necessary select the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*, then click the "Log" link for Deployed Function to view the activity. 
```

** Here we see from the Application log the timer was canceled and will never fire.
+
----
2020-08-03T12:51:16.841-07:00 [INFO] "From OnUpdate: cancel request, timer was canceled" "type_of_interest::1"
----

> == *Test 3: Create a Timer then Overwrite the Timer:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Test 3: Create a Timer then Overwrite the Timer
```

As above

. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.

> ** Edit the control document type_of_interest::1 it should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Edit the control document *type_of_interest::1* -- it should look like this:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": false,
  "cancel_timer": true,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 2
}
----
+

> Now change "cancel_timer" to false to create a mutation, then Click *Save*.  This will create a mutation and then the Function will generate a Timer.  The control document is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change "cancel_timer" to false to create a mutation, then click *Save*.  This will create a mutation and then the Function will generate a Timer.  The control document is now:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 2
}
----

> . Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and click on the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* then Click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and if necessary select the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*, then click the "Log" link for Deployed Function to view the activity.
```

** Here we see from the Application log that we created a timer.
+
----
2020-08-03T12:52:18.641-07:00 [INFO] "From OnUpdate: creating timer" "type_of_interest::1"
----

. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *source* bucket.

> ** Edit the control document type_of_interest::1 it should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Edit the control document *type_of_interest::1* -- it should look like this:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": false,
  "a_number": 2
}
----
+

> Now change "overwrite_timer" to true to create a mutation, then Click *Save*.  The control document is now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change "overwrite_timer" to true to create a mutation, then click *Save*.  The control document is now:
```

+
----
{
  "type": "type_of_interest",
  "id": 1,
  "needed_condition": true,
  "cancel_timer": false,
  "overwrite_timer": true,
  "a_number": 2
}
----

> . Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and click on the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* then Click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Eventing* page and if necessary select the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*, then click the "Log" link for Deployed Function to view the activity. 
```

** Here we see from the Application log the timer was overwritten and will fire at a later time.
+
----
2020-08-03T12:52:50.441-07:00 [INFO] "From OnUpdate: overwriting timer with same reference" "type_of_interest::1"
----

> . [Optional] mutate the document several times by changing "a_number" this will overwrite the timer multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. [Optional] mutate the document several times by changing "a_number" -- this will overwrite the timer multiple times.
```

. Wait about 80 seconds and click the "Log" link for Deployed Function *cancel_overwrite_timer* to view the activity.  
** Here we see the timer fired and executed the callback *DocTimerCallback* near our scheduled time.
+
----
2020-08-03T12:53:56.925-07:00 [INFO] "From DocTimerCallback: timer fired" {"docId":"type_of_interest::1","random_text":"arbitrary text","tmr_time_to_fire":"2020-08-03T19:53:50.441Z"}
----

> . Now check the results of the callback, access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *target* bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Now, to check the results of the callback, access the *Couchbase Web Console* > *Buckets* page and click the *Documents* link of the *target* bucket.
```

> ** Edit the new document type_of_interest::1 and you will see the data written by the Timer's callback:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Edit the new document *type_of_interest::1* and you will see the data written by the Timer's callback:
```

+
----
{
  "docId": "type_of_interest::1",
  "random_text": "arbitrary text",
  "tmr_time_to_fire": "2020-08-03T19:53:50.441Z"
}
----
** Click *Cancel* to close the editor.

> . Now Click the trash can icon and delete out document and Click *Continue* to confirm the deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the trash can icon to delete the document, then click *Continue* to confirm the deletion.
```

*Cleanup*:

> Cleanup, go to the Eventing portion of the UI and undeploy the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*, this will remove the 2048 documents for each function from the 'metadata' bucket (in the Bucket view of the UI). Remember you may only delete the 'metadata' bucket if there are no deployed Eventing functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To  clean up, go to the Eventing portion of the UI and undeploy the Function *cancel_overwrite_timer*. This will remove the 2048 documents for each function from the 'metadata' bucket (in the Bucket view of the UI). Remember you may only delete the 'metadata' bucket if there are no deployed Eventing functions.
```
